##Job hunt
_March 2012_

Looking for a job? Sending out your CV's like crazy to every posting you find in hope that one of them will eventually reply? Feel like they're going into a black hole, never to be heard from again? Stop.

Even in today's tough economic climate, there's a multitude of jobs currently available. So here's a simple guide to landing that job you've been wanting for a while.

1. Find a list of jobs you like, something like 25 or so.
2. Narrow that list down to jobs you have the education for.
3. Narrow it down further to what you have experience for. You should be left with no more than 5-10 jobs now.
4. Get in touch with these companies, ask if the vacancy is still available. Get more details on what your day to day role will be. Ask about future progression, personal development, training, opportunities in-house and outside. Sound interested. Be interested.
5. You should now only have about 2-3 jobs that you like, and have a dialogue open with the recruiter.
6. Now the fun bit - research the hell out of the role, the company. Get to know what they do, who their competitors are, where they're weak, where they're strong, what you feel they're doing great and where they can do better. Once you know the company, get to grips with the role. The dialogue earlier should've given you a good idea of what you'd be expected to do, and think about how you could do that and then some.
7. You should now be able to write a kick-ass covering letter.
8. Ensure your CV only has your education and work experience *relevant* to the role you're applying for. Tailor it. Make sure it says "I was doing X for Y, and delivered Z during my time there". Get rid of the marketing  mumbo-jumbo. It should be direct, to the point - a CV / Covering Letter will stand out a lot more if there's no crap in there that 99% of CV's have. Keep it a page long, no more than two.
9. Send your CV and Covering Letter.
10. Rejoice. If they don't call you for an interview - the open dialogue earlier will let you ask why they turned you down (if they don't tell you why already).

Lastly, if given the choice, print your CV on some fine paper and send it via recorded delivery to them. They'll take note of it a hell lot more.

If all else fails - just start your own business. No you don't need any money to do so, and yes - it's actually easier than finding and applying for work.