##Building Qreer.com
_May 2012_

With the onslaught of a staggering number of career / recruitment website's lately - I thought I'd give a quick run down on the process that we went through when building [qreer.com](http://www.qreer.com).

One of the largest recruitment companies in the Netherlands noticed two voids in the market:

1. There's no recruitment website catering for highly skilled / technical / educated professionals such as engineers.
2. There's no recruitment website covering Europe as one entity; EU nationals are allowed to work/travel through other EU countries with minimal restrictions.

The idea for Qreer was born, and soon we were in Eindhoven going through all the nitty gritty details of what needs to be built.

> **Lesson 1: Hire a Designer / User Experience Guru from the Onset**

We did do some mockups, some designs, some wireframes and some user journeys. We had a very thorough spec in place of what we wanted, but we weren't "complete" on what it should look like. In hindsight, a designer should've been brought in from Day 1 - and from there on we should've had some wireframes / mocks of every single page on the website. The designer would've gone back and designed pretty much every page (as tedious as it may be) - and we should've sat down again and gone through everything. This would've allowed us to see exactly what the finished product would like, and make any changes before any part of the build actually commenced. 

By far the most important lesson, and one that could have potentially saved months of work in the long run. Instead, pages and features were built, feedback acted on, rinse and repeat. It meant that we were constantly iterating, and changing things as we went along. In hindsight, doing this with wireframes or mockups may have been far quicker, and only commencing the build once every single page was drawn with all its functions / details outlined. The site underwent a total of 3 major design revisions before launch, which adds up to a lot of work.

> **Lesson 2: The name doesn't matter**

The project was renamed around the same time as the 2nd design revision, and it really isn't more than a few days worth of hassle to change any legal documentation / paper work. Just a reminder that the name you choose is more than likely not the one you end up launching with, so don't waste too much time on it at the beginning.  
  
> **Lesson 3: Employ best practices, even solo**

You never know when people may enter or leave, so always employ best practices. Sticking to source control (Git), having an MVC structure in place (CakePHP for us), clear and concise code commenting, seperated development / testing / production environments meant that developers were added and removed with minimal hassle, and our design revisions didn't cause too many headaches.  
  
> **Lesson 4: Test, testing and more QA**

With deadlines looming, tests were neglected. This is incredibly bad practice, and we do have intentions on going back and spending time to get our code test coverage up to good level. As it is PHP - and the grunt of our recent work is frontend (javascript), we're writing code and hitting refresh; but even Javascript / Jquery now has frameworks and allows pain free testing; it's something you should not skip on. Thankfully we have folks helping out in QA, and many a bugs would've gone unnoticed if they weren't available.  
  
> **Lesson 5 - Get feedback. Iterate. Improve.**

There's still about 50 items in our "To-do" list, all a mixture of bugs and features that we want to add. This list has been down to as low as 15 items, and as high as 150 items. Once you've hit your original spec, keep hunting down a bit more performance, more optimization, make the site easier for the users and always keep asking for feedback.

That's it so far. We continue to make improvements daily, and have some pretty cool stuff lined up to be revealed in the near future.
