##Paradise in a Tropical Forest
_July 2012_

Phuket is a truly wonderful place - get yourself a scooter, get out of Patong and go exploring! My intentions were to spend the month at [Tiger Muay Thai](http://www.tigermuaythai.com/), but I sustained an injury on just my second day that put me out for my whole time there.

So, in no particular order and blurbs of text for those interested:

Tiger Muay Thai is in Chalong, more towards the Southeast on the island. Located on the same road are various other Muay Thai places (notable Dragon Muay Thai, Top Team Phuket), and a whole bunch of places to live and eat at that I'll get to. First and foremost - TMT is probably the largest and most "commercial" out of the bunch, and as such classes are large. 

A lot of people wonder about the training quality, and being honest, don't come here to train for the quality. Language barriers aside, it's no better than what you find back home with someone who is a competitive fighter or a good instructor, and probably for the same price. You come here for the atmosphere. There's nothing like being awoken at 6am hearing bags being mercilessly punched and kicked, the grills frying delicious food and people running past your window. It makes you want to roll out of bed while the sun is still rising, grab a shake from the bar and actually move your lazy arse.

TMT have a pretty good setup, structured classes, really great admin staff and they are incredibly helpful with any problems. Though the classes are large, I never saw the ratio of students to instructors exceed 5:1 (apart from the morning yoga / group aerobic classes).

I would recommend it, without question, but there were a few negatives for me -

1. Food at TMT Grill was expensive compared to what you would get just a few minutes walk away. 
2. Accommodation was also pricey for what you get - first week is fine there but go out and get a better place. There's loads.

---

Quick word on accommodation- I stayed at the Fighters Bungalow at TMT for my first week. Clean, air-conditioned, hot water (not that you need it) and less than 5 seconds from the training area. THB5000.00 - good for the first couple of days for ease, but find a better place quickly. 

Go up the road slightly and you'll come across Floraville, where for the same prices you'll get a slightly bigger room, cleaner / newer, and a swimming pool too. Unfortunately for Floraville, they happen to be right next to farm - you will hear the animals singing their morning songs at something like 4am, so bring ear plugs.

Further up the road is Signature - around THB8000.00 for the week, but holy moly it's like paradise. Huge rooms, massive pools, you can get your room cleaned every day, and I couldn't believe they weren't charging that per night. There are a bunch of other resorts so do check them all out, but I stuck with Signature.

Also - bring a bunch of photocopies of your passport - most places require them :)

---

Mentioned earlier - one of the first things you oughta do is get yourself a scooter. TMT and most resorts / food places rent them out by the day / week - and its usually around THB150-200 for the day, or around THB1000 for the week. Get a helmet too - it's the law and it may save your life. You don't need to give a deposit, but they normally would like a photocopy of your Passport. 

You can get car too if scooters aren't your thing, but be prepared to surrender your passport - I got a relatively new Toyata Eos for THB1000 per day, no deposit, no paperwork, THB5000.00 excess. I handed over my passport, some cash, got a key and that was it. Obviously before you that make sure the guy is trustworthy, and if renting through your resort, it might be more expensive but you won't have to hand your passport over.

Taxi's generally have set fares, but your resort can likely find a driver looking to make some cash - so you can find a pickup / dropoff cheaper when booking through somewhere. You might also note some folks riding around scooters with red vests over their clothes - those are the scooter taxi's! Cheap, quick through traffic and a life hazard!

---

Thai food. After the beaches, probably the other thing you would want to try the most. And please do! I ate out at different places for a whole month and had no problems, but obviously take caution of where you get the food from! I didn't have a single bad dish (apart from some fatty chicken satay at one point), so don't be afraid of trying different stuff!

TMT Grill is pretty pricey compared to whats around, but they do serve grilled / healthy foods that are a bit bland - but they have to cater for so many foreigners that you can't blame them. Floraville up the road has pretty decent food too, and so does Buan Swann down the road. Signature do pretty decent food (slightly pricier), and keep walking and there's this little orange resturant that served me this ridiculously spicy fried curry that I couldn't eat it, and couldn't stop eating it. Absolutely delicious. It was right next to the sports bar / little convenience shop.

Further up the road was my favourite hangout - Tony's Cafe. Insanely cheap - I had a chicken fillet steak, fries, some thai curry soup and then a club sandwich, alongside a strawberry protien shake and a mango shake (yes, this was on day 2 after training), all for £5. And it was delicious. I probably sampled everything on his menu over the month I was there.

Tony's also has accommodation, scooters to rent, some PC's with internet for guests to use, and I think it was one of more popular places where you saw a lot people eating / drinking.

Across from Tony's was YAYA House - also doing similiar stuff and good food again.

I'd like to make a notable mention to a chap in a hut just a minutes walk from TMT that makes absolutely amazing Pizza's. Think it says Koko's Pizza, and there's always a guitar sitting on a stand. Do give his pizza's a go and tell me they aren't great.

For those wanting their more traditional stuff - head to Central Festival Phuket, The Big C or Tesco Lotus nearby and you'll find a whole bunch of Japanese, Spanish, English, French restaurants, but these are the more pricer options. You'll also find the big chains like McDonalds, KFC, Starbucks all there as well.

---

Being on Phuket, the main attraction for most people will be Patong beach - there's a whole heap of websites / guides to it, so I'll skip that and mention the places I visited (more than once) for the time I was there -

1. [Wat Chalong](http://www.tripadvisor.com/Attraction_Review-g1215781-d553516-Reviews-Wat_Chalong-Phuket_Town_Phuket.html) - A beautiful, gorgeous temple just south of Phuket town. Definitely a must visit.  
2. [Central Festival](http://www.centralfestivalphuket.com/index.aspx) - A very modern shopping mall, with a cinema. For those moments that you could do with a bit of home.  
3. [Big Budha](http://www.tripadvisor.com/Attraction_Review-g1389361-d2433844-Reviews-Phuket_Big_Buddha-Chalong_Phuket.html) - Seen from pretty much anywhere on the whole island, breath-taking views when you're up there.  
4. [Night Market Phuket Town](http://www.tripadvisor.com/Attraction_Review-g1215781-d2032284-Reviews-Phuket_Town_Night_Market-Phuket_Town_Phuket.html) - Only on Saturday and Sunday nights, with delicious food and cheap stalls. Spend a couple of hours at least.  
5. [Patong Beach](http://www.tripadvisor.com/Attraction_Review-g297930-d2454044-Reviews-Patong_Beach-Patong_Phuket.html) - Worth a visit if you've never been, but ultimately very touristy. Google and you'll find a bunch of guides for it.  
6. Big C / Tesco - Clean, inexpensive and a good alternative once markets aren't doing it for you.
7. You'll also find a bunch of smaller markets in open areas. Be careful with the prices and quality of food.
8. A whole bunch of tattoo parlours are also around - they're much cleaner / more modern and you will find some westerners also working in there. Top notch.
9. [Sea Bees](http://www.sea-bees.com/) - I got my SSI open water from these guys. Top notch, competitive prices and I can't recommend them highly enough. Definitely coming back to do more training with them!
10. Hospitals and Pharmacies - Bangkok Hospital and Phuket International Hospital are pretty close by, they're cheap and I found my excess for travel insurance was higher than what I ended up paying for my treatment. Be careful tho - they do try and give (sell) you various treatments and medicine you don't necessarily need. Do question everything they do, but on the whole they will treat you to very high standards. Pharmacies are dotted all over, have relatively the same prices and most importantly - get some Mosquito repellent - the more deet in it the better.

That's it - if there's anything else that I remember about my trip - I'll update this article. There's absolutely no question that Phuket really is one my favourite places in the world, and after experiencing Australia it's next on my list to go and live for a while!
