## Dear Government
_January 2012_

I've noticed, over the past couple of years, that you've been over reaching slightly. You've gotten into some stuff you wish you hadn't, and now all you can do is regulate your way out of it. Funnily enough, I'm the one paying for it; both in my sanity and monetary value.

So here's a little heads up, something simple to help you get back on track. I've come to expect very little in terms of rational decisions from you, so I'd like to take you back to the basics. The real basics. As a citizen, and a human, here's my list of 4 things that you should be responsible for:

- My Liberty
- My Education
- My Healthcare & Welfare
- My Safety & Protection

See? It isn't an extensive list. It really is not difficult. I'll break it down for you -

### Liberties
Give me the freedom to do whatever the hell I want. Only stop me if I endanger the lives or the livelihoods of others - but if I put my self in danger, that's my problem. I mean this both as an individual and a company - stop me if I begin to 'influence' the group / market for personal gain at the expense of others, but don't go regulating a whole group or market.

### Education
Provided you give me a solid education, I *should* know better than to endanger myself or others. I *should* be able to keep an open mind, find decent work and live a fulfilling life, contributing back to society in a positive way.

### Health and welfare
Yes, there will be moments when I do break, so I do expect you to take care of me. Patch me up and get me back out there. If you can't, then let's hope you listened to the previous point and can retrain me to use what I do have left and not be a burden on the state.

### Safety and Protection
This goes back to the first point - I don't need protection from myself. Protect me from the other crazies out to get me. But, for pete's sake, don't tread on my liberties. If a crazy person out there wants to take something innocent and turn it around for his evil purpose - stop the crazy person, but don't take away that something innocent.

---

Given the liberty to do what we want, with a good education and health care taken care off - I think you'll be pleasantly surprised at how few evil doers do end up out there.

Best of all, you'll find that we, the people, will look forward to pay our taxes for we're finally getting what we want.

Yours,

A not very content citizen. 