##Bye Spotify, I hope I see you soon
_August 2012_

After a year of free listening, and two years of premium membership - I'm saddened to say I've cancelled my membership. It's all down to simple maths:

> £10/m = £240 over two years  
> £0.79 per song = 300 songs

My [Starred Playlist](spotify:user:shazamjad:starred) only contains 226 songs added over the course of the two years. I have a few other (rarely listened) to playlists making up another 80 songs or so. My musical tastes haven't changed much, I still prefer the same sort of music I did a long time ago. Yes, it's pretty nice to able to discover new music but I find myself returning to songs that I like, perhaps adding maybe one or two to my collection a month. Which brings me to my main gripes on Spotify:

1. I don't "own" any of this music - I stream it, or play it in "offline mode" provided the spotify app has internet access to ensure my subscription.
2. I can't stream on more than one device at a time.
3. Can't transfer songs to a player, CD etc. Yes I know spotify has mobile apps for various platforms, but I no longer own any of those platforms.
4. Location-based song restrictions - far too many times music dissappears and reappears, albums don't get released and so on.

Please don't get me wrong - I love spotify. I convinced plenty of friends to sign up to it - we share music, send each other pretty random messages and have installed the various "add-ons" on the desktop spotify client. Very few other services come close in helping you to discover new music. I still use it daily, and will continue to until my subscription ends in two weeks.

What Spotify are doing, and have done is nothing short of astounding. They're dragging the much viled music industry, kicking and screaming, into the 21st Century. I just wish the music industry was more open to change - and I have a good feeling that Spotify themselves are aware of the gripes above, but their hands are tied. 

I hope they can change this industry, and I hope a subscription based model takes off that allows me to "own" the songs and yet be able to explore, discover, and share music. Until then, I'm afraid I'm back to paying for a song, and using the free Spotify (or the various other services) for sharing and discovery.
